.TH genforest 1 "Nov. 2002" "genforest 1.0" "Geometry Generator for Radiance"
.SH NAME
genforest \- Generate a forest in Radiance format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genforest \fIradius angle\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The genforest utility generates a forest using the Radiance library tree.oct. The radius is the 
measured in feet, and gives a clearance of that radius in the middle of the trees for the rest of
your scene. The angle parameter tells genforest how much of this circle should be 
surrounded by trees (no sense adding trees you can't see).
.P
The utility basically randomly scales and rotates the same pine tree and places it 
over an annulus which averages the radius you secify. Since it uses random numbers, do
not embed the command itself in your radiance description file, since each invocation
will generate a different forest, and the renderer won't like that. Instead,
redirect the output to xform and drop that in a scene description file with a
comment about how it was generated.
.SH BUGS
.P
Generates a different forest each time, even with the same parameters. You
could add a seed value as input to "fix" this, but that seems like a strange
thing to explain to the average user, so having them send the output to the
scene seems a reasonable fix to me. Judge for yourself.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Anthony Kay.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This software is freeware. Use it as you like. The author does not give any warranty, 
including for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
.B xform(1)
