.TH genlogwall 1 "Nov. 2002" "genlogwall 1.0" "Geometry Generator for Radiance"
.SH NAME
genlogwall \- Generate a log wall in Radiance format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genlogwall \fBmaterial name width_ft height_ft logdiam_in [holedata]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The genlogwall utility generates a log wall of size width_ft X height_ft measured in feet.
The logs will have a diameter of logdiam_in, measured in inches.  The wall
extends toward +X (from log butts to log tips), +Z (bottom edge of wall to
top), and centered in Y (log centered along the X axis). The utility will cut
holes in the wall if you supply a data file describing the holes. Use xform(1)
to move it into place.
.P
The data file format for holes requires one set of numbers per line, with an optional hole
fill specifier at the end of the line. The numbers are measured in feet. 
.TP
\fIbottom top start width[:w|d]\fR
.P
Where bottom and top are measured from the base of the wall, start is measured from 0 on the
X\-axis (the starting edge of the wall, which extends into +X). The final specifier is optional,
and can be :w for window or :d for door. This specifier is kludge as a
convenience option, and assumes the materials named brass, paint, ypine, and
window_illum (for the glass) exist in some other part of your scene.
.P
If you want to do the windows and doors yourself, use genframe(1), gendoor(1),
and genwindow(1).  
.P
Comments in the holedata file start with #, and blank lines are ok.
.SH EXAMPLE HOLE DATA
.P
.nf
# Door (7 feet tall) starting 3 feet from end of the wall,
# 2.5 feet wide
0 7 3 2.5:d

# Plain jane hole starting 3 feet off the ground,
# extending to 6 feet off the ground, starting 4 feet 
# from the end of the wall, 2 feet wide
3 6 4 2
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Anthony Kay.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This software is freeware. Use it as you like. The author does not give any warranty, 
including for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
.B genframe(1),
.B genwindow(1),
.B gendoor(1),
.B xform(1)
