.TH genroof 1 "Nov. 2002" "genroof 1.0" "Geometry Generator for Radiance"
.SH NAME
genroof \- Generate a section of roof in Radiance format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genroof \fB[\-p] [\-b diam_in] [\-m cap_material] [\-r caplog_rad_in] \-o overhang_ft mat name datafile height_ft thickness_in\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
This utility generates a roof section. The total height in Z will be height_ft.
A thickness_in parameter around 8 to 12 is recommended (see BUGS). The material
specified with mat is the base name for the assumed materials: mat_edge, and
mat_bottom. For example, specifying "roof" as the material requires that
roof_bottom and roof_edge exist in you scene files. The material for
the shingles is auto-generated, and requires the files shake.cal and
shingle.pic, which are part of the normal Radiance distribution
(obj/cabin/shake.cal and lib/shingle.pic) to be on RAYPATH.  
.P
The roof data file describes how the roof part looks from a 2D birds\-eye
view.  The section is generated according to the 2D points, and is positioned
in Z so that you need only transform it to the height of the walls it will
adorn. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-m " material"
The material to use for the logs that fill the end of the roof. Your scene must
have this material defined in it.  The default is ypine.
.TP
.BI \-r " radius"
The size (in inches) of the logs that make up any end cap specified in the data file. The default
is 4.
.TP
.BI \-b " radius"
Put beams along the interior of the slope of the roof (not currently supported)
.TP
.BI \-p
Put a beam along the peak (not currently supported)
.TP
.BI \-o " overhang_ft"
The number of feet that the roof overhangs the house. This allows the utility
to adjust the Z coordinate of the generated piece so that you need only
transform it to the height of the walls it will sit on.
.SH ROOF DATA FILE
.P
The first part of the roof data file has one vertex per line in the format:
.P
x y b|mp|p
.P
Where the final item stands for bottom, midpoint, or peak, and is used to automatically
calculate the Z coordinate of that part of the roof. The roof piece must be
a single plane, so the b indicates that the point is at the bottom of the roof, mp indicates
that the point is somewhere between the bottom and top, and p indicates that the vertex is
at the peak.
.P 
IMPORTANT NOTES: If there are multiple vertexes at the peak, they MUST be parallel to the
X\-axis. All vertexes must be in the postive X\-Y quadrant.
.P
Optionally, the bottom of the data file can have lines of the format:
.P
c:x y x y
.P
which tells the generator how to fill in the ends of the roof (cap it). The generator will put
logs along the line indicated by this data matching the slope of the roof at the end.
More than one cap line can be specified.
.SH EXAMPLE DATA FILE
.P
.nf
# A 21x10.5ft roof section with the peak running along the 
# x\-axis, capped three feet from the ends
# (Draw it out...you'll see it)
0 0 p
21 0 p
21 10.5 b
0 10.5 b
0 0 p

c:3 0 3 7.5
c:18 0 18 7.5
.fi
.SH BUGS
.P
The restrictions on this data file format attempt to simplify the complex
problem of generic roof generation from an algorithmic standpoint. Hopefully,
this doesn't cause too much trouble for the user. I have personally run into
complex roof problems that have required me to pull out a calculator and do
some trig. Once I had the 2D vertexes, the utility did quite well.
.P
The end capping can leave light leaks or cause the logs of the caps to stick
through the roof. The recommended a 8-12 inch thickness parameter helps fix
this. The problem is two-fold.  First, cylinders don't match sloping planes
nicely, and the variable height of the roof pieces may not divide evenly by log
diameters. A good combination of height, log diameter, and thickness must be
provided to get sealed ends.
.P
The genroof utility does not check to see if you make the peak parallel to the x\-axis, it
just does weird stuff. 
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Anthony Kay.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This software is freeware. Use it as you like. The author does not give any warranty, 
including for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
.B xform(1)
