.TH genstdwall 1 "Nov. 2002" "genstdwall 1.0" "Geometry Generator for Radiance"
.SH NAME
genstdwall \- Generate a standard (box) wall in Radiance format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B genstdwall \fB[\-b mat] wall_mat name wid_ft ht_ft thick_in [hole_data]\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.P
The genstdwall utility generates a std wall of size width_ft X height_ft
measured in feet.  The wall extends toward +X, +Z (bottom edge of wall to top),
and centered in Y (centered along the X axis). The utility will cut holes in
the wall if you supply a data file describing the holes. Use xform(1) to move
it into place. Use genframe(1), gendoor(1), and genwindow(1) to fill the 
holes.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-b " material"
Add baseboards to the wall using material.
.SH HOLE DATA FILE
.P
The data file format for holes requires one set of numbers per line, with an optional hole
fill specifier at the end of the line. The numbers are measured in feet. 
.TP
\fIbottom top start width\fR
.P
Where bottom and top are measured from the base of the wall, start is measured from 0 on the
X\-axis (the starting edge of the wall, which extends into +X).  Comments in
the holedata file start with #, and blank lines are ok.
.SH EXAMPLE HOLE DATA
.P
.nf
# 7x2.5ft hole starting 3 feet from end of the wall,
0 7 3 2.5

# Hole starting 3 feet off the ground,
# extending to 6 feet off the ground, starting 4 feet 
# from the end of the wall, 2 feet wide
3 6 4 2
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Anthony Kay.
.SH COPYRIGHT
This software is freeware. Use it as you like. The author does not give any warranty, 
including for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH SEE ALSO
.P
.B genframe(1),
.B genwindow(1),
.B gendoor(1),
.B xform(1)
